The Sisters of Muninn

--

I woke up in a strange bed in a strange room.
To my left, a woman was dipping a towel in a bowl of water.
She wore a familiar-looking garb that I couldn't place right that second - my mind was still a little muddled.
She noticed that I was awake and stopped what she was doing.

"Hi", she said while offering me a smile.
Not the kind of smile that comes to you when you're happy, but the kind that you offer when you should.
I tried to sit up and speak at the same time, but my throat was dry and my body's aches and pains made themselves known.
She came over, uncapped a bottle of water on the table next to me, and helped me sit up.

Drinking had never been such a chore, nor so painful.
I took a few sips and tried to thank her, which hurt.
It took a few tries, but I eventually croaked out a "thanks".
She offered me that same smile.

I was confused - how did I get here?

"How did I get here?"

"We found your pod after it crashed a few miles from here.
You were in pretty bad shape, but we were prepared for that, luckily."
She continued explaining but the sounds stopped holding meaning for me.

Ah, yes, I remembered: that's the garb of a sister of Muninn.
I was probably safe here.
With that thought, I drifted back off to sleep.
I had the impression that she gave me a strange look when she noticed I was passing out again.

--

The second time I awoke, I was less surprised at the bed and room I woke up in, but still surprised.
I couldn't sense anyone else in the room with me, but it was night and the room was very dark.
I tried to sit up and surprised myself with how easily I was able to do it.
I guess I'd gotten a lot better - or I just really needed to pee.

There was a faint light coming from the desk where the bottle of water was.
I pushed it and the button turned on the lamp.
I immediately regretted this decision and closed my eyes as my pupils tried to compensate.

A few seconds later I was out of bed.
I took a few more seconds to steady myself, then put on the slippers that had been put next to my bed.
I moved to the door, which opened with no resistance.
I walked out into the hallway.

To my left was mostly darkness.
To my right was light and sound from around a corner - the sound of dishes being washed.

My first instinct was to stay silent and hide, but after a moment of reflection that made no sense.
If I was being held captive here or these people meant me harm and they weren't actually the Sisters of Muninn, I'd know it already.
They'd saved me at their own expense and risk.
I walked to the right and turned the corner.

The woman who I saw the first time was indeed washing dishes.
I could smell food and it quickly reminded me of how hungry I was.

"Should you be moving around already?" she asked me.

"Need to pee," I answered.

"Oh."
She smiled a different smile this time.
"Straight down that hallway, on your left."
She pointed back the way I came.

I turned around and left.

When I left the toiletroom, I was feeling much better and much hungrier.
In the direction of the kitchen, the sound of running water had been replaced by humming.
I followed the humming into the light of the kitchen.
There was a tall table in the kitchen which I walked up to and leaned on - standing was a bit of a chore.
She was drying the dishes now.

"Um...", I started.
I wasn't sure what the proper social protocol was here.
What's the correct way to ask for food if you're a starving freeloader who nearly died and was saved by the altruism of
an organization you had previously never dealt with and you had barely exchanged 3 sentences with the person you were asking?
I didn't even know her name, nor she mine.

As I debated the options, a door opened and another sister walked in carrying dangerously many plates and a bowl held between her forearms.

"Oh, it's awake," the newcomer said.

"It?", I asked, rather taken aback.
Ungendered pronouns were generally reserved for situations you couldn't identify the gender and for slaves.
Alternatively, it was a playful insult, but we didn't know each other that well - or at all.

The second woman delivered an impish grin.

The first woman saved me.
"Yes, /he/ is, Elle. And probably hungry too."

Elle had set down the bowl she was carrying and was about to set down the rest of the food.
"Can he eat in here?"

I answered, "Um, I'd prefer to sit. If that's okay."

She frowned an overly-expressive, exaggerated frown and lifted the plates back up, leaving the bowl where it was.

"Follow me", she said, and made for the door she came through.
I tried to open the door for her, but she made it there first and opened it with her foot.
I followed her through.
The first woman finished drying the last plate, took a clean fork, picked up the bowl that had been left behind, and followed also.

The dining room had two long, wooden tables.
Instead of individual chairs, there were benches.
Most of the remaining plates were empty so the leftovers must have been gathered onto what Elle was carrying.

She set them down at the nearest end of the table and the bowl joined the plates shortly afterward.
The first woman set down the fork in front of me.
"Thanks", I said, and dug in.

They sat and watched me eat the way you'd watch a stray, starving puppy eat: with that particular kind of amused expression.
I binged.
"This is the best food ever created", I said.
Still with a fawning grin, Elle spoke. "Hunger is the best sauce in the world."

"So said a man back when everyone lived on one world", the first woman replied.
"I'm Anne, by the way."
Finally, I could stop thinking of her as the first woman.

I took a moment to finish chewing and said "Hi Anne, Elle.
I never got a chance to say this, but thanks for saving my life."

"No problem! All in a day's work", Elle replied.
Her grin changed from watching-a-puppy back to the imp.
After a moment, Anne asked, "So tell us about yourself".

"I'm..."
I had the attention of both the women.
I paused to think about what to say.
Perhaps I should tell them my name?
No, that wouldn't do.
Expectations were high in this dining room.
"...very thirsty", I finished.

Both of them moved to stand at the same time, but Elle was closer to the kitchen door so Anne sat back down.
Elle giggled and left to get water.
Anne gave me a strange look.

--

Elle returned with 3 cups of what probably wasn't water, carrying them precariously with her small hands.
She set all three down, then she and Anne both took a cup.
I took the third and stared at it.
It was greenish-yellow and warm, like tea, but with bubbles inside.
Some of them floated to the top, even though the glass was still.

They had both started sipping the drink and I hadn't touched mine.
"You probably don't have the poisoned one", Elle said.
That grin again.

I gave it a cautious sip.
It was much sweeter than tea, but quite good.
I proceeded to empty most of the glass.

"So it was good, then?" asked Anne, as if I were a scared kid trying something new for the first time.

"This is the best drink ever created" was my reply.
That earned me a chuckle and another giggle.
I sat back a little and relaxed from ingesting everything in front of me for the moment.
"So, where am I?"

Anne waved a finger at me and maintained her matronly demeanor.
"You have to answer one of our questions if you want an answer to yours.
Fair's fair."

"Okay", I said.

Elle: "What's your name?"
Me: "John. Where am I?"
Anne: "Trinity"
Me: "Trinity? I've never heard of that system."
Anne: "No, Trinity is the name of this planet."

That didn't really help place me anywhere.
Planets are officially named after their solar system and a number based on distance from the sun.
Sol 3, for example.
Some planets had nicknames, such as Earth.

"What's the real name for this planet?" I asked.
Anne shook her finger at me again.

"No, it's our turn", she said.
I took another bite of something.

Elle: "Where did you come from?"
Me: "I was born in Anoikis.
     The last place I know for sure where I was was New Kor-Azor.
     What's the real name for this planet?"
Anne: "Trinity! But technically, it's Fensi 3."

Fensi.
That wasn't too far from Amdonen.
Not that I'd get there any time soon with my pod destroyed.

Anne: "Do you know how you crashed?"
Me: "Not entirely clear. I was getting ready to go to Amdonen.
     The jump gate in NKA mis-fired and I ended up... somewhere.
     Near Fensi 3, I guess."
Elle: "A gate misfired and you ended up in the gravitational pull of Trinity, not in a rock or just in the middle of nowhere?
       Do you know how unlikely that is?"

My turn to delivery a teeth-baring smile.
"My question. And the most important one yet:
What am I drinking?"

Anne answered, "Hot pop".

"Hot... pop", I said, slowly, with rising inflection.
I wasn't sure if that counted as a question.

Elle answered anyway, "It's hot and it pops. See the bubbles?"
Without pause, she plunged forward.
"There's no way you got lucky enough to end up inside Trinity's gravitational pull by accident.
There are 7 planets, 1 sun, 2 jump gates, and a billion cubic kilometers of nothingness in Fensi.
There's a billion more in between systems.
Your pod has no warp drive and certainly no jump drive, so if you hadn't been pulled in by Trinity, you would have been stranded.
Pods are basically impossible to scan down,
so even if people knew you were somewhere in Fensi it'd be a long time before someone found you."

This was pretty basic knowledge that she was sharing with me.
As someone flying around in a pod, I obviously knew all this.
Though the bit about scanning down pods wasn't quite right.
Scanning tech had come a long way in the last decade.
The newest deep space probes could get a lock on a pod in minutes.

Fensi was far from empire-controlled space, though.
The claws of the empire and the fruits of technology would be slow in getting here.
I got the impression from Elle's enthusiastic explanation the she wanted to go to space but lacked the means to.
That didn't bode well for me if I wanted a quick exit off this planet.

Me: "That wasn't really a question..."
Elle: "Do you realize how astronomically lucky you are?"
Me: "An empire-controlled jump gate fires countless times taking pods and ships from NKA to Amdonen and I end up nearly dead in Fensi.
     I don't feel terribly lucky.
     More importantly, what's in this hot pop?"
Anne: "You're going to be answering questions until next year if you want an answer to that one."

Smirks on both of their faces.
This was something they were proud of, something they probably invented.

"Fine", I said.
"Do I get another question then?"

"Yep", replied Elle.
"What happened after the jump, after you landed in Fensi?"

Apparently, that counted as my question.
I sighed an unnecessary, dramatic sigh.
"I was pretty disoriented. My pod was still moving forward from the jump.
It started spinning, slowly at first, speeding up until it got out of control. I panicked and eventually blacked out."
I paused a bit to see if I had any memories before waking up to a beautiful woman by my bedside,
not quite in her prime but not quite ready to settle down and grow old.

My thoughts got a little distracted, so I finished off my hot pop and used a backup question.
"Why is it called Trinity?"

Anne answered, "Because it sounds better than Fensi 3."

"And we're the 3rd rock from the sun", Elle added unnecessarily.

I forked something and prepared to eat it while waiting for their next question.
Eventually, I realized I was rather full but it had taken a while for my body to catch up with my binge eating.
"It's your turn to ask a question."

"I know", Anne said, then paused, letting a thoughtful expression take over her face.
"Do you have any more questions for us?"

Perhaps I should ask for a way off this planet?
But that would seem ungrateful after they had saved my life, nursed me back to health,
and just got done feeding me and introducing me to the wonders of hot pop.
So instead I asked, "How come we're speaking English?"

Anne gave me a very strange look.

--

When I finished eating, I offered to help with the dishes so as not to seem ungraceful, but I got the expected shooing off to bed.
With both the need to use the toiletroom and the hunger and thirst gone, my body informed me I was quite tired.
I don't even remember how I got into bed.

I woke up to a very bright sun streaming through the shades.
This confused me for a while, partially because I was half-asleep but mostly
because I'd forgotten that real sunlight didn't turn on and off via a switch.

I left my room but couldn't hear anything.
I got to the end of the hallway and, after a moment's debate, headed to the restroom to clean myself up.
With that out of the way, I walked to the kitchen and towards the dining room door.

Opening the door broke the silence.
There was a lot of chattering in the dining room.
Apparently, this door was soundproof.

I was greeted by the chatter and bustling of breakfast.
There were a dozen or so sisters gathered, some still eating, most just chatting.
All eyes turned to me when I entered.
It was like being the new kid at academy, except I was a boy at an all-girls school.
The teacher - or in this case the matron - I mean Anne - came to my rescue.
She stood up and walked over to me to complete the teacher-introducing-new-student picture.

"Sisters, this is John.
John, this is everyone."

"Hello, everyone."
I paused for a brief moment to decide whether to play the funny card or the humble card.
I was a scanner salesman specializing in deep space probes - I didn't do humble very well,
but it seemed more appropriate here considering I'd be dead if it weren't for them.
"I'm still not totally clear on what happened, but I'd be dead if it weren't for you, so thanks for everything so far."

A face I didn't recognize piped up.
"So, the mysterious spaceman finally shows his face after 3 days!"

Wait, I was out for 3 days?!
"Wait, I was out for 3 days?", I managed to not exclaim.

"Well, more like 3 and a half-"

"-No, just half a day", Anne interrupted with a mock frown.

The unidentified woman had an impish grin that I recognized.
"You must be Elle's partner in crime."

Elle chimed in, "Sister, actually. By birth".

"Same thing", Anne and I said at the same time.
A glance and a giggle passed between the two of us.

"If you sit near us", Anne said, "Elle and I will deflect questions for you".

Elle's sister was seated at the table nearer the kitchen door.
We moved back to the other table where Anne and Elle were sitting.
I was given a plate, took my seat, and had hardly located silverware before the first question came.

"So, what happened to the spaceman's spaceship?"
I looked up at the interrogator.

"Let the poor man settle-" started Anne.

"It wasn't a spaceship, it was a pod!", interrupted Elle.

"Who cares about the difference?", my interrogator asked.

"Pods can't warp by themselves! They have to use stargates. They're not spaceships!"

"The old man's Raven has to use a stargate to warp too."

"No, it uses the stargate to jump, not to warp.
It can warp by itself."
This last rebuttal was accompanied by wild gesticulations.

"Whatever, it's a ship and it flies through space, so it's a spaceship."

I cleared my throat.
This was a question that came up sometimes, especially when selling to less savvy buyers.

"Does an airship fly through the air?", I asked.

"Yes", my interrogator responded.

"Does a bird fly through the air?"

A pause, while she mulled it over.

I continued, "More to the point, pods don't really fly through space in the sense that they propel themselves.
They just get launched through warp tunnels by stargates.
All they really do is keep the passenger safe while they're hurling through space."

"OK. If the spaceman says so, I'll believe it", said my interrogator.

"By the way, this food is delicious.
Also, my name is John", I said, smoothly segueing into introductions.

"Oh!" she said, bringing her hand towards her mouth in a gesture of feigned, but not impolite, politeness.
"My name is Inna. Pleased to meet you."

"Same to you."
I took a bite of food while wondering how and, more importantly, when to ask about getting off this planet.
They had shown me - were showing me - a lot of hospitality and I was quite comfortable here anyway.
What was the rush?

"So", I asked, "what meals is it appropriate to consume hot pop during?"

Elle immediately replied, interrupting any would-be nay-sayers, "All of them, silly!"

"Hot pop for breakfast?" Inna asked with a disapproving look - the mildly offended kind.

"And brunch and lunch and afternoon snack and dinner and second dinner!", Elle replied without missing a beat.

For a moment, I considered the possibility that the custom here was to eat 6 meals a day.
After all, I had been unconscious for most of my time here so I wouldn't know better.
If that were the case, I needed to eat less.
It probably wasn't, though.

Elle started standing up.

"Wait, are you going to heat it up now?", asked Inna.

Elle thought about it for a second and sat back down.

I seized the opportunity to ask, "So hot pop is made at room temperature and then heated?"

Elle and Inna started speaking at the same time but Anne spoke over them.
"How much are you willing to pay for that secret?"

"Well," I started, and then paused to think.
"I'd give up any hope of going back home to learn the dark craft of hot pop."

"Ah", Inna said, "so the spaceman wants to go back to space."

"What, do you think I just live in space?"

Inna paused a moment to think, then thought for a moment more.
"You know how, at night, you look up at the sky and see all the stars?"

"Mhm", I slowly agreed, not sure if this was related to the conversation or if she was crazy.

"And you know how all those stars have planets orbiting them and most of those planets have people living on them,
living lives just like your own except with a different day/night cycle and different seasons
and different culture and different customs, diverged so many millennia ago that some are totally unimaginable to you.
Lives that you can read about but still seem so bizarre and foreign and not at all like your own
except you could get in a starship or a pod or whatever and go there and live with them for a little bit,
like you've done, or even spend the rest of life there?"

"Mhm."

"Well, I've never been anywhere but here.
I believe those places and those people exist, but they only really exist for me in stories.
To me, everything on Trinity is Trinity and everything else is just 'space'.
So yes, you live in space."

It was a bit before anyone spoke again.
We were all a little taken aback by the sudden outpouring of introspection.

"Well," I said, "where I'm from, it's not customary to be so smart in the morning."

Anne gave me a strange look.
